# Diagnostic logging

The following table shows the types of logging, the platforms supported, and where the logs can be stored and located for accessing the information:

<table><thead><tr><th width="192">Type</th><th width="105">Platform</th><th width="215">Location</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Application logging</td><td>WindowsLinux</td><td><p>App Service file system</p><p>Azure Storage blobs</p></td><td>Logs messages generated by your application code. The messages are generated by the web framework you choose, or from your application code directly using the standard logging pattern of your language. Each message is assigned one of the following categories: <strong>Critical</strong>, <strong>Error</strong>, <strong>Warning</strong>, <strong>Info</strong>, <strong>Debug</strong>, and <strong>Trace</strong>.</td></tr><tr><td>Web server logging</td><td>Windows</td><td>App Service file system Azure Storage blobs</td><td>Raw HTTP request data in the W3C extended log file format. Each log message includes data like the HTTP method, resource URI, client IP, client port, user agent, response code, and so on.</td></tr><tr><td>Detailed error logging</td><td>Windows</td><td>App Service file system</td><td>Copies of the <em>.html</em> error pages that would have been sent to the client browser. For security reasons, detailed error pages shouldn't be sent to clients in production, but App Service can save the error page each time an application error occurs that has HTTP code 400 or greater.</td></tr><tr><td>Failed request tracing</td><td>Windows</td><td>App Service file system</td><td>Detailed tracing information on failed requests, including a trace of the IIS components used to process the request and the time taken in each component. One folder is generated for each failed request, which contains the XML log file, and the XSL stylesheet to view the log file with.</td></tr><tr><td>Deployment logging</td><td>WindowsLinux</td><td>App Service file system</td><td>Helps determine why a deployment failed. Deployment logging happens automatically and there are no configurable settings for deployment logging.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Application logging

### Enable for Windows Apps

1. To enable application logging for Windows apps in the Azure portal, navigate to your app and select **App Service logs**.
2. Select **On** for either **Application Logging (Filesystem)** or **Application Logging (Blob)**, or both. The **Filesystem** option is for temporary debugging purposes, and turns itself off in 12 hours. The **Blob** option is for long-term logging, and needs a blob storage container to write logs to.

### Enable for Linux Apps

1. In **App Service logs** set the **Application logging** option to **File System**.
2. In **Quota (MB)**, specify the disk quota for the application logs. In **Retention Period (Days)**, set the number of days the logs should be retained.

## Webserver logging

1. For **Web server logging**, select **Storage** to store logs on blob storage, or **File System** to store logs on the App Service file system.
2. In **Retention Period (Days)**, set the number of days the logs should be retained.

## Stream logs

Before you stream logs in real time, enable the log type that you want. Any information written to files ending in .txt, .log, or .htm that are stored in the `/LogFiles` directory (`d:/home/logfiles`) is streamed by App Service.

* Azure portal - To stream logs in the Azure portal, navigate to your app and select **Log stream**.
*   Azure CLI - To stream logs live in Cloud Shell, use the following command:

    BashCopy

    ```bash
    az webapp log tail --name appname --resource-group myResourceGroup
    ```
